REASONING TRACE FOR: django__django-14559

HINTS FROM BUG DISCUSSION:
Also, if this feature is okayed, maybe the number could be returned in a way that would permit other useful numbers to be added to the return value in a backwards-compatible way later on. For example, the number could be returned as a property of a named tuple with one property. That way, if a new value is requested in the future, it could be added by adding a new property to the named tuple.
Also, if this feature is okayed, maybe the number could be returned in a way that would permit other useful numbers to be added to the return value in a backwards-compatible way later on. For example, the number could be returned as a property of a named tuple with one property. That way, if a new value is requested in the future, it could be added by adding a new property to the named tuple. Do you have any specific statistics in mind?
Thanks. Do you have any specific statistics in mind? Not especially, but more because I don't know what might be available. The only things that occur to me right now are things like the number of queries made, and the batch size used for the function call. More usefully, though, if update() were ever to grow the ability to report not just the number of rows matched but also the number of rows changed, that would definitely be of interest.
More usefully, though, if update() were ever to grow the ability to report not just the number of rows matched but also the number of rows changed, that would definitely be of interest. Given that would likely require a signature change to update if we ever want to support it I think that making bulk_update return the sums of its updates should be good enough for now.
I would second that: it’s good to be future proof, but we’re somewhat locked in to the current returned result due to update. Let’s just make it return the updated rows, which seems like a simple and sensible change.
I took a look at this yesterday and due to the way bulk_update treats duplicates in objs this might not be quite so straight forward as simply summing the returned values from repeated update() calls. Duplicates split between batches will be counted twice. See https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/32388
There is now an (accepted) issue #32406 to make update() return something different. Given that, might it make sense to reconsider making bulk_update() future-proof now?
update will keep returning int unless returning is specified otherwise it would break backward compatibility. Can't this ticket be dedicated to having bulk_update returning int when returning is not specified? I don't see what needs to be made here to make bulk_update future proof? How does making bulk_update -> int prevent us from having bulk_update(returning) -> list match the signature of update(returning) -> list in the future?
assign to bhavikabadjate901
Due to inactivity, I'm claiming this ticket. bhavikabadjate901 please come forward if you have done any work on this! I'm taking the simplest approach first, which is bulk_update -> int. As stated by Simon Charette: I think that making bulk_update return the sums of its updates should be good enough for now. and Tom Forbes: Let’s just make it return the updated rows Then, I'll stop and think a bit more about Chris Jerdonek's future-proofing and Tim McCurrach's duplicate edge case.
PR ready for review at ​https://github.com/django/django/pull/14125. I did not handle duplicates, and did not future-proof bulk_update. I'm keeping an eye on #32406. If it gets patched, I'll update the returned value on bulk_update. If we pin down an API that is generally agreed upon, I might claim that ticket as well.

Note: These hints are from the original bug discussion and may contain 
insights about the root cause, proposed approaches, and potential pitfalls.
